the order.
Thank you, John. The uh first up is me
to do the mayor before we start.
>> Thanks. Yeah. The uh
um first up is a roll call and seating
of alternates. And I see all the
commission members are here.
and
all the alternates are here. Thank you
very much uh everybody for for showing
up tonight. Um
apparently we uh we did not confuse
anybody because I see nobody is here. So
I guess nobody was anticipating a public
hearing on anything tonight. We uh we
got that a little bit uh out of sync. Um
but hopefully uh as we get down through
things, we'll we'll set a public hearing
for next month. So Wayne and I both
apologize for the confusion on that. We
think we've got uh got it all going
right now. The uh
any additions or changes to the agenda?
and I have nothing.
So, we will move on to public speak. Um,
Catherine Hutchinson, you have anything
for us tonight? I think you're the only
member of the public who's uh with us.
>> Not uh not at this time. Um, and
[clears throat] I realize there'll be
another public speak at the end of the
meeting and
>> if I anything that I'll do it at that
time. Thank you.
>> So, um,
we'll move on to old business. First up
is the application of Pitch Family Farm.
And
since the last uh meeting, based on the
discussions at the meeting, uh, Mr.
Finch chose to withdraw his application
and u he is allowed to do that. So
that application is no longer valid.
However, as part of the uh list of
various changes to the planning and
zoning regulations that the town is
looking at, we will include essentially
the same
uh draft regulation that we were talking
about last month on behalf of the town
and uh when we get there, we'll talk
about that. So, that's what's going on
with the Agro Tour Zone.
Um
so next up is the uh various changes to
the planning zoning zoning regulations
and with that uh
Wayne can you talk so
two months ago well right now we're just
looking at accepting that application
correct
are we discussing the particulars
>> we can we can discuss it we can uh
Right.
>> Um
and we can discuss it after the public
hearing, but again that you know our
role in proposing regulation on town
behalf is to have them in a good set a
good condition before we hold the public
hearing so they're sort of the way we
want them to be. Then we answer any
questions from the public or take input
from them and then uh we can deliberate
on it. Uh but we are allowed to
uh talk about those tonight in a similar
manner to what two months
[clears throat] ago we talked about. Uh
I had a listing of changes that changed
width to frontage for rear lots. Um
added garages for more than two motor
vehicles in the lake zone by special
permit. eliminated reference to new
construction homes in a flood plane.
Uh deleted the minimum size house
requirement because that's not legal in
Connecticut.
In section 11.2 changed width to
frontage requirement. Change front yard
setbacks for open space lots from 20 to
30 ft due to setback being measured from
the center line of the road.
change business adjacent to ARD front
yard setback from 10 to 45 feet due to a
setback being measured from the center
line of the road and we would not want a
reduced setback next to a residential
lot.
made all setback requirements for homes
in the Andover Lake District the same,
removing the setback requirements for
seasonal homes as I no longer expect
seasonal homes to be built
and eliminate the column listing floor
area as minimum floor area no longer
legal in Connecticut. [clears throat]
We were also discussed uh at that point
changes to the kennel regulations so
that we would require a special permit
for even the smaller class A kennels in
addition to class B and and C. So we had
talked about those. I wasn't going to
have John put those up on the screen
tonight. We will do we will put it up on
the screen when we have the public
hearing to go through them a little more
detail, but I thought we had had a good
chance to talk about those at the time.
And so uh the couple of changes that are
left are uh a change to section 16 with
the gravel pit break, change to section
22, and then we'll talk about the agro
tourism draft break.
Dwayne, if you want to just run us
through what the what the changes to
section 16 are and and why.
>> All right. Um, I had an inquiry
some time ago now, probably six, eight
weeks ago from an individual who was um
asking about removal of gravel and
whatnot. Gravel from a site in
conjunction with a building permit that
had been issued.
Um, and it was a h it was hypothetical.
You they were just probing as near as I
could tell. Um,
I did a little research and I found that
uh some towns
like Andover
um did permit the removal of gravel, top
soil, whatever rock
um from sites as part of a building
permit. And that's proven to be a
problem for those towns because
individuals would uh obtain a property,
go to site plan and get a building
permit and essentially mine the property
rather than
and Franklin had that issue. Canton had
that issue. So I looked at the
regulation and I thought it'd be a good
idea to add a limit to the amount of
material that can be removed.
um in conjunction with the building
permit. And anything over that amount
would require a special permit.
And I I chose five I I talked with Eric.
I threw it around um I put a number in
there, 500 yards, uh which sounds like a
lot, but that's about 12 15, you know,
triacal loads of material.
I'd leave it up to the commission to
come up with a you know the actual
number.
>> Go ahead.
>> Um is that just for residential or is
that
>> resound?
>> And then and is that what if they were
going to build a building? How much like
say a 10,000 foot building? Is that too
much or not enough material to remove?
Like I'm just saying like if they were
going to do a regular
>> Well, they part of the special permit
process. They would justify what they're
going to do.
>> A special permit, not just a regular
building permit. Correct. Okay. Correct.
>> All right. Thank you. Well, building
permit, but a special permit from zoning
to excavate or to to do that with a lot
of material,
>> right?
>> I think like East Hampton's had two or
three cases where people are removing
material for years and
>> and sneaking around the requirement to
get a special permit for an excavation
site.
>> So, we're trying to hit that off,
[clears throat]
>> right? And so the number that's
currently in here is a thousand
>> yards. Wayne said he's
>> Well, the the number in the current reg
there are no numbers in the current
regulations.
>> No, your current proposal, at least the
one that I've got,
>> the one you have says a thousand. The
one I have says 500, but I think we
could the commission the commission can
can back that around and
>> we were we were wanting to make sure
that the number was big enough that
somebody can go in and if they're
digging a basement or something, they
can get the uh the dirt out of there.
not hit that wicket. We're not trying to
make it
>> hard. We're just trying to
>> eliminate the possibility somebody gets
creative and said, "Let me go run a a
mining excavation here." Um, and I'll
put up a little house and and we'll just
say it was all incidental to building
the house. So, that's that's the burden
on that one.
>> Okay. And then, uh, section 22.0.5, 0.5.
I had a email exchange with attorney
Brance on that and that that section.
>> Can you put that up on the screen?
>> Oh, okay. Um, John, you're going to have
to give me control.
>> Uh, all right. Hang on.
>> I don't know.
>> Control permission.
>> Maybe
>> you should be able to.
>> Okay. All right. [clears throat]
>> Yeah. Okay.
25.
>> Wayne, if if you need to, I can I can
put it up. Just tell me which section to
go to.
Um, tell you
>> for some reason I can't get to Okay.
>> Okay. Why don't you go ahead and try it,
John?
>> 22. Yeah. All right. I'm gonna I'm gonna
jump in.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, this is I think I saw a
reference to 22.0.5. Is that right?
>> Yeah, correct. Well, on the website I I
have a fully fleshed out proposal.
>> Oh, okay. I can here. Let's um
>> under our applications there. 3Z
>> 22. Oh, I got you. Okay.
Okay. Can you guys see this? All right.
Make it big.
>> There you go.
>> Yeah.
>> So, um
and and then
this morning I discovered the need for
some conforming changes. So, anything to
do with uh section 22.0.5
came about because of a actual motor
vehicle statute that required
uh motor vehicle uh sales of motor
vehicles to be run by the zoning board
of appeals. So, if you scroll down to
the bottom of that document, John, it'll
it'll show the section 22
uh sections that
>> keep going all the way down the bottom.
>> Oh, okay. I see it. Yep.
>> Yeah. Keep going.
>> Keep going.
>> Okay. Oh, you mean the bottom bottom?
>> Bottom bottom. There we go. Right there.
Yep. That's it.
>> So, that's the existing 22.0.5.
It's tough to read because of the strike
out. Um,
but the way the process was is if you're
going to sell, if you're going to do any
of those things, not only do you need a
special permit from zoning,
then it goes to ZBA for them to weigh in
on,
>> which made no sense,
>> which which made no sense. The statute
was changed. It was a state law. The
statute was changed in 2023.
Uh, attorney Bri says, "Get rid of it.
It's not needed.
>> So, that's what I'm That's what I'm
doing. If you scroll back up,
I made I made right here. Stop. Stop. I
I made some right. I added number four.
This is in an industrial zone. I Well,
first I changed auto to motor vehicle so
that nobody said, "I'm selling trucks.
Um,
and I changed motor ve vehicle gasoline
sales to motor vehicle fuel.
So,
covers anything you can put in a vehicle
to make it go. Um, diesel, hydrogen,
natural gas, propane, whatever. Um,
>> electricity.
Oh, maybe not for commercial
application, I guess.
>> For commercial application. Yeah. Yes.
>> Uh
I added motor vehicle storage facilities
which was in the uh ZVA regulation
and then I reumbered everything.
If you scroll down,
I changed lumbar to lumbar
and and then right down at the bottom I
for for grammatical for style it's 17
and 18 not 17 period 18th period in list
format. That's how myself is. Um,
so that's what I'm proposing for uh
22.0.5.
All all of these things here need to
come to the zoning commission for
special permit.
And under business, the only thing that
is allowed in a in a business zone,
which is which is up, John up, which is
section 8.1,
was gasoline sales.
So, motor vehicle sales, uh, motor
vehicle repair,
all those things
technically aren't allowed in a
business. So by the car by your current
regulations, I didn't really mess with
that except
change gasoline to motor vehicle fuel.
And
>> I think that makes sense. You know, we
don't want uh we want the business zone
to be businessy in the industrial zone
can do some other things like car
repairs, all that kind of stuff. But
so so that's what I got.
>> Yep. So, um,
>> but this is all going to come up when
you schedule this the special the
>> the public hearing.
>> Any questions on uh the couple of things
that Wayne talked about and and again
because you know that we are not doing
any deliberation here all the alternates
can ask questions just as well as any of
the uh regular members. So feel free to
ask the way.
Okay, hearing none. The last last item
on the list is the agro tourism
and and John if you can uh you'll put up
uh and if you display that I know what's
posted on the website doesn't have the
uh the markup with it and your version
did have that and so if we can you take
a look at the markups and just go
through what we changed from last time
[sighs]
>> is so where would that be is it the the
the draft this one the V4
>> up at the top I think
>> I'm sorry
>> clicking on that one you got there I
think that's got the markups in it
>> okay
>> yeah it looks like it okay
>> so is uh we were going through this and
I guess just
I am I'm pretty satisfied with with
where we are on this and we'll talk
about the the sound limits again in just
a minute. Um
but since it's now the town's regulation
and not Mr. Fitch's regulation,
you know, there's there's a couple of
things that we could do. One of which is
we could do what we've got displayed
here now.
Another option would be to not have any
amplified sound outdoors.
And another would be to not have
non-aggricultural
accessory uses.
You know, there's I know uh there's a
lot of farms around that they have uh
daytime events, you know. One that
sounds like a fish farm is the fish farm
over in Bolton. And they have uh you
know a bunch of weekend activities that
they do for the kids during the day and
that kind of stuff. Uh
I can go
I can go with either of those options.
What I don't want to have is everybody
goes with this one because we started
this out uh on Ryan Vitch's behalf and
then everybody said, "Well, gee whiz,
I'd rather had no outdoor amplified
music at all." But uh but we never
talked about that. And I think there's a
couple of people in here that would like
that. Couple of people in here that
would like the outdoor music and and
happy with that. I just don't want to
get to the point where we get to a
public hearing and and there's uh we
have
dissension among the commission here on
what it is that we want to put forth.
So, anybody have any comments
on that thought before we continue
looking at this one here? Patrick,
this is, you know, this is the guy, you
know.
Yeah. [clears throat] And I and I
appreciate that we we made a large
amount of work uh put in on this and the
whole intent was to
promote the local business that's
already trying something new, you know.
Um but you know those other farms have
daytime activities and this is was for
like more like for the adults and
>> yep
>> something at night. Um and it it is a
tricky situation you know.
>> Yep.
>> Um
and I thought that even though nine is
ear you know earlier than the applicant
wanted that I thought that should fly
but
now we're in a different position. And
uh if you're if you're if you're
suggesting no amplified music at all, I
mean residences like kind of sound like
the uh like right well if anybody can
have a party in their yard until 10:00
at night.
>> So I get I get his point
>> and and we all I think we all agreed
nobody wants sound ordinance because we
got a lot of other stuff going on that
people like not having sound ordinance
in a way. would just fall back on the
state as far as the seems like pretty
rough guidelines there.
>> Yep.
>> So, um
>> we're never going to make everybody
happy and we we also have to keep in
mind protect people's property values
and and why they moved to this town. So,
I mean any anybody other thoughts on
that? I mean, and we, you know, we did
have somebody that monitored the town
zone gazebo and we had 80 dB across the
street. So, I mean, that's pretty loud
across the street. It is
>> at 9:00 at night, you know, and then
there's the whole breaking down and
unloading and people getting in their
cars and I get that part of it, too.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I've been to know several of the
town
>> concert sitting here and certainly
breaking down is not a noisy evolution.
It's not going to
>> Yeah, they usually depends how big if
you got a carnival going might be a
different different thing.
>> Yeah. And we really never addressed the,
you know, number of people that can show
up. We just said, well, if whoever's
applying has to say what the how many
people they expect and we we all knew
that what was going on now is is a
smaller number of people. And that was
pretty tolerable for most people in my
opinion.
>> Yep. I uh
>> but you know, right? though I'm I'm
still for promoting the aggra tourism
and still have allowing some amplified
sound. It is tough to regulate and I
don't know if we have the resources to
monitor that and stay on top of oh well
is it too loud? Is he not too loud or we
could uh
we could do I know I think you mentioned
like a trial basis for a year and if it
works out great and if not then can it
right? So, I'm on board with that one
for sure. And as as as all the work we
did up till now, it still promotes some,
you know, it's a it's pretty good
compromise. Maybe not everybody's happy,
but
>> So,
you I said I wanted to, you know, that's
why I wanted the the month to think
about all this stuff. And there was a
couple of things that
>> that I thought of along that line. And
and one is, you know, when the town
holds a concert, they do maybe two or
three a year.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's open by 9:00. Might be a little
loud. Kind of like the beach. Beach only
did one this year. But
>> but that's different. We have to not we
have to look at the regulation. Not from
what Ryan Fitch might do, but if you
were to take it to the extreme of what
our regulation allows, I can just
envision somebody buying Yman Street
Barn over on Lake Road in the Lake
District, have big parties and party,
you know, to the max that we allow on
this thing and that would get old for
the neighbors, you know, really quick.
And I think it was Katherine Hutchinson
that pointed out how many different, you
know, places we've got.
Um, so
and again I said I'm okay on this. You
know, I kind of I want to support the
agro tourism too. Um, I just think agro
tourism should have more of an agro
relation
than
I tried to to think what would we expect
if somebody were coming up to set up an
outdoor concert venue in town.
>> I don't think that's what the people of
Andover are looking for. I went back and
looked pretty hard through the plan of
conservation and development.
It's, you know, we we're looking for the
tranquility and that kind of thing. So,
so it is it is a tough call
[clears throat] and uh
all we can do is is our best, but I I
wanted to make sure we had time for
conversation on that before we just put
it out. And then if everybody said,
"Well, I always thought that was a
pretty dumb idea. Why do we do that?"
Anyhow, don't want to hear about that
after I want to hear about that now. So,
anybody else have thoughts on that?
>> Like the idea of having a trial of one
year to see how it works with the
current guidelines on amplified sound.
I sort of like that idea.
And and again, we have the right as the
commission to regulate how many events
somebody's happening. Somebody's
happened so that, you know, we don't get
too far out of bounds. And we do have
the uh the opportunity to
limit, you know, a lot of different
things based on the location. So,
>> right,
>> there's no oneizefits-all. That's the
beauty of the special permit.
Anybody else have uh anything they'd
like to say about that one tonight?
>> I'm good with the amplif
the 9:00 10:00 is a little too late you
think or I mean
>> I think I'm just probably good in you
know June or July like the the longest
days.
>> I personally think 9:00 is plenty late.
I'd be happy with, you know, there's a
lot of towns that do their concerts.
Well, on Thursday night, they go 6:00 to
8. Um
>> I I was going to say, um, when the rec
commission does concerts at the gazebo,
they're usually 7 to 9. Um, if it's in
the fall, we might do 5 to 7 or 6 to 8,
but in the summer, we've we've done
9:00.
Um, and I I would like to see this stay
with, you know, a limit on the hours.
>> Then, uh,
>> I think a lot of older people go to bed
by 9. I mean,
>> I I think they do. You know, if we had,
uh,
if 10:00 were okay in the summer, we
wouldn't have had anybody speaking
against it. And and I was surprised
there were several people that were, you
know, and and one of the things that
I'll do different if anybody shows up at
a public hearing is ask what do you
think an appropriate time is? So we get
that input from the public. But um
when the when the concerts were going to
10:00, you know, a lot of people said
we're concerned about the noise.
And going back and think about I didn't
know what that meant exactly, but I took
it to mean it's too loud and too late.
Okay. So, we'll you know if we uh and I
think Patrick you said the the state
level was 70 dB. Uh yeah, it changed
from zone to zone like from commercial
to the residential like if they were a
butters um and there was different
limits and I think I still but
>> okay
>> and then it it depended uh like next to
an industrial or commercial zone it was
louder than the residential zone. So,
and this is one of those cases where it
it's in a mixed use zone and it should
be
it should be a deciding factor a little
bit, you know, like he could decide that
he wanted to put industrial there and
then he could be loud all day and
>> not loud loud all night, but it could be
producing noise all night, too. And you
know, not to say that's right, but it is
currently it's being used as a farm and
you know, these vets, but
>> and and business stores, but
>> you know, I'm trying to keep that in
mind, too. So,
>> yeah.
>> You you also have to think of the
traffic. You know, if people are
wrapping up at 9 versus 10, you have
people hanging out after in and out of
their cars or or whatnot. So I think
nine is late enough.
>> Okay. Yeah. [clears throat]
>> Another thing is Route 6 is pretty noisy
all day. So people are looking forward
>> people looking forward to winding down,
you know, quieter. So to them it's taken
away from that
>> quiet time, you know, speed.
>> I came to Andover for quiet time.
>> Yeah.
>> To somebody else's music. And and I'm
not saying whether music's good, bad, or
whatever. Yeah. If it's not your music,
that's surely good music. So, um, and I
do think it's different with the gazebo
because we know it's only going to be a
couple times a year. I think the town
has the ability to, uh, well, this is an
agro tourism rate. what the gazebo's
doing. Certainly not falling under that,
but we have the uh
we could work that out if that got to be
problematic. But I'm not aware of
anybody complaining about the concerts
ending at 8 or 9:00 that we've been
doing here.
>> Well, and I think I live next to the
beach for a whole year, right next to
>> as close as you could get to it.
>> I was right next door. So, I remember
having that band over there and they
were done by six o'clock or something
like that. So, it was it wasn't that
bad. That was during the daytime with
the pillar.
>> Okay.
So, that was a big thing. John, if you
could go back to displaying that. Uh,
>> Sure. Um, so do actually I have uh Wayne
sent me the sort of the clean version.
Do you want me to bring that one up as
opposed to the markup?
>> You'd like to show you know what we did
change last time
refresh themselves.
>> All right. Hang on.
Yeah, I don't think we changed anything
on the first page. Uh,
>> no.
>> Coming down to the second page. We did
uh you have go to go to that paragraph I
up there. You just above the amplified
sound thing. So, we can show everybody
how we we made it that simpler.
uh events that don't include amplified
sound
again before 9 or finish after 10. Um
so uh so that made sense to me. Next
paragraph
I I was
you know the thing I like about the
background level on my noise meter is I
know how to go out and measure that to
the state limits.
um
we need to know what this we need to be
smart on that so we're not just saying
do an applicant
uh show us how you're complying with the
state limits because we don't understand
how it works you know we're here to help
an applicant
but I think that that would be fairly
reasonable wrapping up by 9:00
I think I think it's
the lateness more than the noise level.
But hopefully we'll get some feedback on
that you go public hearing.
So I'm good to go with the way paragraph
hotel is up there right now.
I think uh most folks are at uh you had
9:00 cut off time on Friday and Saturday
and 8:00 on the rest of the days. Um
I'm good with that. So, and it sounds
like most people
were okay with that. Not perfect, but
probably uh does good.
Um, down on the site plan paragraph, we
we added the words including setup and
take down just so we uh we get a chance
to make sure we're not taking down the
carnival hole at 3 in the morning and
making a bunch of noise out there doing
that.
Um,
in the very last comment that I had that
didn't get in there because I didn't
catch it till I reading it again. The
last
paragraph K, health district approval,
I'm sorry, John. Go to last paragraph on
the proceeding page
shall provide a copy of the approval to
the width.
So I think we just eliminate to the and
it goes to with the permit application.
>> Okay.
>> We can
just eliminate to the
>> Yeah, I it's it's a PDF. Well, I can I
can like physically mark it off like
this. I
>> I'll let you get that later on then.
Yeah.
>> Okay. Very good.
Um,
and then, uh,
I don't know if the $50 annual renewal
fee is the right number or not, but it
can be there for the, uh, first go
around. And, you know, I think our town
permit fees and that are are too low. I
think we need to jack them up a little
bit.
>> Change it then. [clears throat]
um
>> 75 at least.
>> I think I don't know that we can change
them. I think that's a board of
selectment approval thing,
>> but
we'll figure that out between now and
next month when we bring it to uh you
know public hearing.
Any other comments on the agro tourism
regulation?
I guess John, I'll ask a question.
Sometimes I see agro tourism spelled
with an I and sometimes with an O.
>> Yeah, I'm the one that spells it with an
I.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, I would tend to spend it with
spell it with an I also because it's egg
grit culture, not egg roll culture.
>> Okay, very good.
>> Happy to leave it that way. Just uh you
know someplace else I saw a ro tourism
might have been in the POCP chapter or
something. I don't know. Oh dear. That's
that's a that's a much more aggressive
form of agriculture.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. So,
um if if
>> what you say about the $50 fee,
>> I think it should be higher.
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
[clears throat]
>> And someone said 75.
>> Oh, I go 100
if it's this is a business. You know,
the guys out here trying to make money.
We
then
do we get
>> should be at least as much as is the
deposit for the keg tap, right?
>> Used to be 75
like two or 300.
>> Yeah.
>> 50 sounds a little low to me.
Um,
so that's that is all
those are all of the regulation changes
that I was looking at doing right now.
And so, um,
I would make a motion that we
schedule a public hearing to address all
of those regulation changes at our
November prior to our regular November
meeting on November 18th.
I'll second that, okay, thanks, Scott.
Then, uh,
I'll call for vote in
I
>> Scott,
>> Patrick. Hi,
>> Leanne.
>> Hi.
>> I vote I as well. Motion to hold public
hearing passes 5 0.
>> The uh next up is the plan of
conservation and development.
Okay.
So over the if I if I I assume that's a
open-ended intro intro uh opportunity to
speak Chad.
>> Yes. And and I think you know going back
to our original
>> schedule uh that had
October finalized draft and post notice.
So I think you know we should be about
finalized with the draft here. I don't
know if you've gotten any comments at
all. I'll go through three big picture
thoughts I had
looking through all that stuff again.
But at our November meeting, it says
hope and discussion public information
and
I don't know
what's the difference between that and
the public hearing.
>> Uh well the public hearing we
technically need to give everyone um 65
days. the clerk, the region, the
selectman, and the state 65 days before
the hearing opens.
>> Um, so this could it would just be a
general information session to you know,
it's it's not sort of the formal
hearing, but you know, you could you
could let folks know that it's it's an
opportunity to ask questions or or you
know, sort of before the official before
the official receipt and and scheduling
of the hearing.
It's just another opportunity to talk
about it under a slightly different
name.
>> Okay. So, might might not be a long
topic next November. We're really uh
giving everybody their two months to uh
do whatever the rest of the world wants
to do. So, do we need to do we need to
schedule what do we need to do tonight
so that we keep it on track, John?
>> Yeah. Well, so so yeah, thus far, Jed,
the the only additional comments that we
got were your handwritten notes that you
handed me off uh last week, I believe.
Um and uh yeah no so I think you know if
if the if the um planning zoning
commission
is is comfortable with what they have
received what we could do is you know
send out a we haven't sent everything
out as a single unit and and you know we
can compile everything to a single plan
with a a cover sheet and that sort of
thing. Um, again, not not the final
final layout, which will have lots of
photos and and you know, be kind of laid
out a little bit more readably. Um, but
you know, essentially the the the the
chapters are in place, the substance is
in place, the recommendations are there.
So, you know, if if you are comfortable
as a commission that the the documents
that we've sent over the past month in,
you know, in three or four chunks
represents the um the draft that you
want to present formally to the town.
you can you can you know pick a date uh
at least 65 days from now and and we can
schedule our hearing and we'll and then
we'll we'll basically Janal and I will
we'll assemble the sort of the final um
hearing document and forward that out to
the to the um entities that we need to
send it to.
So, if we were to do
our planning and zoning meeting would be
on
December 16th,
>> which is not quite 65 days.
>> Not quite 65 days.
>> Yeah. So,
>> you might be looking into early January
for the January meeting,
>> but I guess we probably won't do it. So,
um,
so should we hold So, should we plan on
a public hearing in January after the
first of the year because that's the
that gives us our 65 days.
Yeah, I mean that so that would be the
January 20th,
>> right?
Yeah, I think that's perfectly
reasonable and and yeah, then we'll what
we'll do is we'll we'll assemble it and
and send it around to the commission and
to all the you know to the OPM to the
region and to uh the the selectman
>> and we'll give them plenty of time
recognizing
>> the uh the holiday season coming up and
how that
impacts a lot of things happening but
okay so January 20th will be the uh
the public hearing on there. Um
I had a couple of thoughts. You know, I
mentioned uh
I didn't really care for the way that
the the whole big chart of action items,
>> you know, I was looking for the heavy
hitters up front. I went back and I see
why it is the way it is. all those uh
soft actions came out of the
introductory chapter and so the
introductory chapters first that means
all those actions got on the list first
u and we didn't get to the heavyhitting
stuff which comes after that but so I
think it's it's the way that it should
be and uh that's just the way it is and
so I'm happy with that listing the way
that is there the
If there was going back and thinking
then and again I'm looking for
commission discussion here. If there was
one thing that I would probably
eliminate
from the POC and it's in the complete
streets chapter, it's the uh pushing
forward for roundabouts.
You know, I look at the intersection of
Lakeside Drive and Lake Road and uh you
know, rarely are there two vehicles at
once in that area. And I look at the the
small area there. I I don't know if
that's what Andover needs to be working
on right now, putting in roundabouts.
What's everybody else think?
>> Yeah. Six.
>> Okay. Got one thumbs down. Yeah.
I I know that the one of the spots was
Hendy and Long Hill Road. There is a lot
of traffic going through there and it's
often like who goes next kind of thing.
So, it might make sense there.
>> Okay. Maybe uh the problem there is that
the grapes are all bad. Terrible grapes
in there.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> There's like a 10 foot drop. Yeah. Hard
to put a roundabout on a hill.
>> They put a roundabout in there. Side
hill like that.
>> That's big construction.
>> Yes. That's supposed to be long hill.
>> Yeah. Sorry. Just noticed that myself.
Um. Yeah. But so this is this is the
only this is the only real reference to
roundabouts in the in the chapter is is
consider. And you know to to be honest
with you it's it's you know this is
classic POCD vague wording. Um so it's
consider roundabouts. Um which is
actually you know kind of what you're
doing right now. Uh so you have already
fulfilled this goal but um yeah it it's
this this doesn't say anything as strong
as you know seek implementation of or
seek funding but it's just consider it's
really yeah
>> you remember back when we had the uh
survey of the citizens.
>> Yes sir. And uh there were many
probably driven by one person in
particular,
you know, people commenting on
not in favor of roundabouts. I didn't
see
you any surveys, but I saw one that said
that we should consider roundabouts in
uh
>> Yeah. Well, yeah. So if if we as a
commission
aren't keen on the idea and we've
already considered them and thinking
maybe it doesn't make sense, I just
assume get it out of there so we don't
confuse everybody else with what are we
going to be doing with this? Uh you
know, we've got
>> Yeah.
>> bigger fish to fry than roundabouts,
which I don't think we got money or
room.
>> Yeah. Well, the only so the only the
only downside of taking that out um is
is should you you know some some future
version of this commission or the board
of selectman or the town manager um and
and CROG decide that that is actually
the right solution. Um having a
reference to it in the plan is useful
for funding purposes. But but again, if
if you know this is this is your plan.
If you're confident that this is not an
issue that you want to tackle,
fine. We can we can certainly take it
out.
>> I don't see a reason why honestly why
you wouldn't keep it in there anyways,
but I don't know how much it's going to
put a roundabout on
>> with air cleaning. You can bet there's
nobody be pushed on a
>> rout
and merit valance spell.
>> So I guess I would propose that we
>> eliminate the reference to roundabouts.
>> I'll leave in moving public works over
to the transfer station,
>> but I think that's as much that's as
quiet as this guy too. Patrick's not
listening to me.
>> I'm sorry. I apologize. I apologize.
>> I'm trying to make fun of you, Patrick.
>> [laughter]
>> public works going over there are making
fun of you and you don't need to listen.
>> I was asking for a ramp there so that if
they go too fast they'll just launch and
I can watch them while I'm sitting my
stop sign.
>> Yeah. Okay. Very
>> sorry.
>> Did you hear that? Um I Oh, are we
getting rid of it?
>> Getting rid of brands.
>> Okay, then it doesn't matter. Yeah.
>> Yeah. [clears throat]
We could I mean also Jed we could also
just if you want to rephrase if we want
to continue a focus on these problematic
intersections or conflict points we
could just rephrase this to you know uh
actively seek you know reasonable
traffic calming or or intersection
improvements or something like that.
>> I'm okay with that. I just
>> Okay. Sure.
>> Think roundabouts you know I like
roundabouts where there's a need for a
roundabout where there's heavy traffic.
We just I don't see it. And
>> well, Lake Road is pretty heavy,
but
>> there's no room.
>> There's no room. Yeah. No, that would
You're right.
>> All right. And if you in item four, if
you didn't hear
>> Merit is is Merit Valley Road.
>> Merit. V. Yeah.
>> Merit Valley Road.
>> M E R. Yeah.
>> M E R I T R T
L.
>> Yep. Okay. Um that was one issue. The
next issue
that uh
I tried to uh you come up with in my
mind what are the you know three heavy
hitters for me that I was looking at
getting here. And certainly with with
Eric leaving
um I think it is
imperative that we keep the town planner
you know and the action item in there
right now is to expand John's role to
encompass economic development.
Um somebody could build the case that oh
BC is done now we don't need to have
this here.
>> That's what happened last time kind of.
>> Yeah. And and then it's usually
dependent on how much money the board of
selectman is willing to even think about
setting the board of finance to do I
guess that is going to be responsible
for affordable law.
>> Okay. Yeah. So my thought is John we
beef up the words about the town planner
there. Um, I would like So, one of the
things that
I'm not doing as well as I would always
hope to is handling the admin associated
with all these regulation changes.
And I've always, you wanted to keep a
tight brain on who has that because I
didn't want I wanted
to know what was going on with them and
that sort of thing. But I think I don't
know if that's something that you could
uh take on in the town planning role
once we get the POC behind us. Um, but
it would certainly make
the role of the planning and zoning
chair
>> Mhm.
>> better if you know we didn't have a
volunteer trying to manage the uh um
>> Oh, yeah. The like the official version
of the regs and all the all the editor.
Oh, of course. Of course.
>> Okay. You got it. Put that in there as
something you need to pick up.
>> Okay.
>> And then
>> uh let me let me just see if that's the
right place to put it. I'm sorry. I'm
I'm going to
>> uh
but I think that's that's my number one
action item is to make sure that we keep
you and we expand your role, not
diminish.
>> Well, let me let me do the students here
and
something like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
because we've got a bunch of uh you know
there's a bunch of regulation changes
that are going to come out of this
um and
that's going to be you know a fairly uh
completion of the PCD is only getting us
to the starting line taking off on a
bunch of stuff
>> right and so we need to to uh share that
and uh Ann and Scott with you know, the
uh board of selectman when we talk about
that and uh I imagine that I will have
to go and I would hope that Elaine would
again with me. you know, when we first
brought John on, Elaine and I both
presented uh some information to uh the
board of finance and the board of
selectment and uh um
but I'm here to tell you there's a lot
of work being done by zoning chair and
uh it it would behoove us to provide a
little assistance there.
The other two two uh you the next
high priority in my mind was
to finish the work that we started on
that zoning now. You know, we've spent a
lot of effort
trying to figure out where we stand now
with the with the zoning now. And we've
got uh you know, we heard Hank talking
about
we did this last time and then we got
the POCD done and then we dropped the
ball and didn't do anything with it. and
he'd really like to sit down with
economic development, planning, zoning,
conservation, and we figure out, you
know, where where the best use of uh of
the dental property is. And so I think
bringing that map to fruition is a a
high priority item. And if I may to add
to that like a yes and um we really need
to nail down the spots that the you know
are uh
the conservation commission would advise
against this development
you know that's that's our biggest
hurdle as far as I
>> can see industrial we're
>> well you know we we're still a mishmash
of stuff right now and we haven't really
clearly defined it enough to say this is
great here and this is great there and
Yeah.
>> Well, so yeah, I I mean that's that's
actually what if if the town that that
might be like the single missing
component of this proposed plan of
conservation and development
>> as it stands right now is um and I was
just going to ask Janal about this. Um
we can put together a future land use
map um which you know will will
attempt to to to parse those those areas
of conservation and those areas of
development. I think the trick being
most of the Route Six corridor is we're
going to have to consider it a a
balanced growth area or something like
that, you know.
Uh but yeah, we that's something that we
haven't shown you visually yet is is you
know sort of an attempted uh future land
use map.
>> But I was I was surprised
how much time we've spent working on
that map already and we haven't even
gotten it to the point where we could
call it our official zoning map because
it's still not
completely accurate.
>> So that's a that's a big one. Then the
last one is uh you know the affordable
housing thing and I think it should
focus on the 55 plus uh back in the day
we used to have starter homes. We don't
build starter homes anymore. That that
wasn't the affordable housing plan. Uh
but um
not having you know Eric was always a
strong component of you know what
planning and zoning was trying to do and
uh I'm not sure how you the board of
selectmen uh are going to be
receptive to uh you know finding that
person who is going to get fired up take
that ball and run with it And uh I think
to make any of it happen, we're going to
have to give up some town property to uh
sweeten the pot to get that guy over
here. I think, you know, we've got
significant drawbacks by not having
public water, public sewer, um and that
kind of stuff, but we can change our
rigs to make it a little more uh viable.
But I do think, you know, for the start,
if we were to get a 55 plus community in
here, um, because we do have an aging
population
in that. So,
>> how can we get this going then?
>> How do we get this going? Um,
>> yeah,
>> first we have to get
>> four hours.
>> More hours for John. Um maybe first
thing we have to do is we have to go to
the board of selectman and see whether
or not they're in favor of it. And so my
my thought is the board of selectment
has to buy in on this plan and we get
their head nod. Yep. We're we're in
agreement with that when uh when we sell
them on on this plan here.
>> So I'm I'm highlighting Jed there. So
already in the plan is a couple of
action items. So we
We talked about actively reszoning the
the targeted properties that are listed
in the affordable housing plan.
>> Um that that allows for some incentive
housing as of right and then after that
that proactive resoning to then you know
look uh look with the um well we
recommend created an affordable housing
committee but also planning and zoning
and the town to work with developers um
who would be interested in assisting
that process. So that that it's kind of
you know some of those steps are laid
out there and um yeah sorry
>> happy with the steps I just you know
when
>> when I started trying to you know get in
my mind what if somebody said what are
your three top things okay well you know
those might not be the best ones but
at least they're they're a start and uh
and we need and we need the board to
select then to uh
green light that they feel, you know,
that we'd have to sell the citizens of
the doubt to give that property away to
a developer. So, there's there's some
steps there, but uh
that's probably the the hardest one of
the bunch to uh to get, but uh
I think that probably the biggest, uh
issue out there for us right this
minute, too. Maybe in our next meeting,
we should come up with a plan, all of
us, how to
brings us forward to voters selecting so
they understand it.
>> Yep. Okay. Yes. Um because that it is
going to take that and I don't know if
everybody's if you board selectman are
all on favor in favor of that or not
quite honestly but I'm hoping that two
of you plan zoning you know I haven't
heard anything I haven't heard either of
you two say anything unfort towards uh
that. So I think you know I'm assuming
that you're okay with proceeding down
that path.
>> I am. I'd like to see it happen.
>> And we we in uh economic development
we've also discussed uh hiring of one of
the developers who talked about we've
been in contact with a few of them and
um that we would need to hire them to
spend the time on it. You know it's not
like they're going to consult and advise
us for free. um unless it's like their
property and they're doing all the
permits and all the you know but um that
that's available also but that would be
a slight expenditure on some hours for
that assistance also.
>> Okay. Yeah, we could be part of the
>> want to bring it up so we don't
>> is already doing this. So
>> they got land.
>> Yeah, they have they
gave them land I guess.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's affordable housing. We were
talking
>> Yeah. So they they also have the
advantage of being right on sewer and
water lines right there.
>> And also
>> it's not
property. Yep. I got you.
>> Okay. But those were my three big
hitters. I don't know if anybody's got
any other thoughts on things that uh you
know you think are key on this thing
that when we we hold our public hearing
and we're briefing the public on this
thing. Uh
>> so the next time we get together, John,
you should have for us the new state
statutes and how they're pushing us to
do the affordable housing.
>> Yeah. Uh it's possible that the the the
legislature will hold a special session
in advance of your November meeting. Um
we'll see. I mean, you know, this was
supposed to be a September session and
then it was supposed to be an October
session and then now it's a November
session. So,
>> uh you know, I wouldn't I wouldn't place
any heavy bets on it, but it's Yeah,
it's possible we could we could have
some different guidelines next month.
>> Question for you. Uh we're we're not
lobbying for any of this stuff, right,
as a town?
Um
>> not as far as I know not directly. Uh
you know the town is part of both CCM
which is the Connecticut Conference of
Municipalities and COST which is the
Council of Small Towns. Um
you know th those two municipal
organizations lobby on behalf of
municipalities. But uh I I don't believe
that I and yeah, I don't believe that
Eric or any of the selectmen have
directly submitted any any uh testimony.
>> No, that that shouldn't be
>> Yeah.
>> No.
>> Um but you would think that
there's got to be grant money or
something out there to do what Patrick
was talking about. Uh you know that uh
there is.
>> Yeah. It should be easy to get a hold of
them. They should be they should be
coming to us saying what can we do to
help you go down this
>> but you also have to be careful with the
cause with their grand so we really have
to understand
>> what that is right um like I said
>> 55 and over is great I think the town
needs it affordable housing I don't
think we need it I don't think the town
needs it here I'm not I'm not for it for
sure and that the state cannot push us
to do it it's not a law. The law only
that we need to loosen up some of the
things if we provide a plan to invite,
you know, developers just makes it easy
for them a little bit, but there's no
law saying we have to have affordable
housing.
>> It's actually not the case. Uh, Andreas,
both both uh 8-2, 8-23 and the Fair
Housing Act federal state that the town
has to make provision for affordable
housing.
They have to make provisions to loosen
up the laws. There's no law saying that
we have to have affordable housing plan
in place to to for for developers to
come and do it.
>> If you don't invite
>> what
>> uh section section uh 8-30J
does say that the the town needs to have
>> to it. There's no law saying that we
have to have affordable housing.
>> Anyway,
>> perhaps you're not looking in the right
place. I'll send you links.
has sent it to me. I'll look at it with
her.
>> So, there was a law that we had to come
up with in affordable housing play.
>> That's called 830J. That's a law.
>> Law of Where's
>> It's a It's a stat. It's a state
statute, which is a law.
>> 830J.
>> 830Js. I don't All right. just send it
to me because we looked into it and
there's we didn't find any law by the
state that says you guys have to have a
plan or or you have to have a for
there's there's a law saying a statute
saying that you have to uh if you have a
plan then you can loosen up some of the
regulations like with parking and so on
and so forth but other than that if you
want to send me some supporting
documents and you know I like to look at
it um But I think there's a percentage
of
>> there. Yeah, that's I I don't want to
get into it
>> here right now because
I couldn't I certainly was thinking that
we had to come up with a plan. Her plan
was to tell the state how we're getting
to our 10%. I
>> we Okay, I I'll I'm going to do more
research. I'm pretty sure who knows how
to have a plan.
>> Okay.
Well, then I'll get a plan.
>> But, you know, there is that, you know,
there is no law that says we have to
have a a portable living uh affordable
housing plan.
>> I'll put it I'll put it on the screen
right now. Andre,
John, send it to me on the email. I
don't want to dis I don't want to waste
the time, but I'd like to understand and
look at it and look at all the facts and
my wife and I will look into it. She's a
lawyer.
>> She knows what she's doing.
So if if we're doing a public hearing in
January,
>> I would think that before we have a
public hearing, we would
run through what we're going to say at
public hearing with the commissioner
and John, would that be something we
maybe do at the December meeting or is
that uh
to I'm sorry to uh have a a December
member have have a presentation just to
the commission or the commission and
board of selectman or how do you
>> um well I don't know and I guess part of
the plan that Scott was talking about
maybe uh
maybe you and I John are going to have
to sit down and figure out you know who
who should sit down and come up with
what this plan ought to be so we've got
a starting point for discussion amongst
the commission here.
>> I maybe maybe I'm getting confused about
how you're using plan. Do do you mean
how we how we
>> like what's our what's our plan of
attack to implement this stuff
>> or what's what's the the plan the the
>> to improve the plan to improve our POCC?
Yeah,
>> we were just talking about we need to
have a strategy on what we're going to
tell selectman
>> so that we can get them on board.
>> And and that could be so we've got,
you know, we've got a November meeting
which is open discussion, public
information. We got the December
meeting. We'll have a public hearing in
January now. So there's there's got to
be some steps that
get us to the point where we're in the
public hearing. The board has
selectively said, "No, we're not doing
that."
I want to avoid that part.
>> And it's 55 and old what you're talking
about.
So I you know yeah there's there's a
couple of ways we can well yeah it's
it's again Jed I'm not sure what if
you're talking about the the plan to
present the plan or
>> yeah no the whole thing I you know uh
I like the Stephen CVY book seven habits
You know, and the last one is begin with
the end in mind. So on January 20th, I'd
like everybody to say, "Yep, that's a
good plan." Yep. Board of Selecmen are
all in favor of providing either of
these two town properties to sweeten the
pot to make some of that happen. Um
and uh but it's going to take a little
work to get there. And uh and we need to
know we you know we've got we've got the
document written and we had a little
plan to get the document written and it
was good plan we executed the plan. Now
we got to get how do we get approval of
the plan which if uh unless we we look
at that a little bit um
it might not go as smoothly as we'd like
it to unless we uh are proactive and uh
>> so I would I would
>> the board of select
>> I would I would defer to you guys on the
right approach to that uh you know
ideally
the you know the the public hearing, the
January public hearing is the
opportunity for everyone to have their
have their say alto together about the
plan. That said, we give we give the the
selectmen um as as as well as the state
and the region, you know, two months
essentially to review the draft. if you
would like if it makes sense to go to
them in in December uh to the board of
selectman meeting and do a little bit of
a song and dance to talk about what the
what the plan is and and to you know do
some presentation on its recommendations
and and suggest that if they have you
know comments and would like to
participate in the in the big process
it's you know January 20th but you know
do a little introductory presentation to
the selectman that's certainly that's
certainly something we do
>> tells to me like what you're asking for
is to get that feedback
>> before the January meeting.
>> Yeah.
>> I just I don't want to get you to bring
the public in here and the board of
selectman you know we are surprised that
they're not in favor of the direction we
were marching off to go. That shouldn't
be the first time that that they are
exposed to this thing. Yeah.
I well I was here for the last time and
the that we submitted the plan of
conservation development. So what
happened last time and how I understand
how the process works is all this work
that all the commissions did that are
appointed and volunteer and the planning
and zoning commission which is elected
and all the people that help them and
the our planner everybody involved what
came up with this plan and it and
sometimes it's not there's parts that
people don't like and but we've taken
the surveys and so up to this point we
have the draft Once the draft is
complete and the planning and zoning
votes,
gay or nay, this is our plan to submit,
then it the board of selectment, as far
as to my understanding, it's their job
as elected officials to try and follow
this plan. And like like the way uh
the way that John has had these action
items, it's up to their discretion as
they as they are elected officials to
represent the whole town as our board of
governors, right? Um to implement as
they see fit within the means and
possibilities of this time. So it's kind
of like a multi-step process. So that at
this point now we have the draft pretty
close and then if you want to submit it
to them for review that's great. But
really what we vote on is that that's
the that's the plan. Now we look back at
the last plan of conservation
development. There was a lot of
conservation and almost no development.
Right? So that's why I I was glad to get
back on EVC to help push forward the
things that people really want to see in
our town. Not focus on that. and we
think we did a pretty good job on trying
to address that stuff. But the stuff we
don't really care for or don't think is
going to fit in our town, we did not
focus on that. So, at this point, that's
the last time it happened that the the
public meeting is just to inform of
everybody of what their volunteers and
elected officials have come up with.
This is the plan. We're going to do the
best we can with it. And then it's up to
the board of selectment or account
manager to implement that as they see
fit and within the means of the town. So
I know some of these action items are
really really expensive and that's why
John prioritize them on these are the
small potatoes and these are the big
ideas right and then we'll see what
happens. Uh that's kind of like
>> okay so the board is lucky and don't
approve it.
>> I for my knowledge
>> no it's it's exclusively the domain of
the planning commission.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So, we don't we don't need their
votes except in so far as you've got
members of the board of selectman on
your commission, but yeah, it's um you
don't need the board of selectman votes.
>> Okay.
Yeah. So, we're we're really close
to the increase.
>> Yep. That is yeah that's a requirement
if
>> and that's and that's well yeah it's
it's also something that we can we can
discuss that it's really a matter of
prioritizing stuff you know to be done
within available allocations but yeah no
if there if there are special projects
you need us to design something that's
different but you know as long as we're
taking things sort of step by step you
know writing some grants working on some
regulations working with developers it's
stuff that we can do within within the
scope of our ongoing service to the
town.
>> Correct.
Okay. So before the next meeting, John,
you and I will get together so that I
have a better understanding.
>> Of course,
>> so I can help facilitate the process as
opposed to hindering.
>> You're not.
>> Any other
>> comments on PCD while we're here?
>> I have I have a question.
Oops. I think I hear somebody, but it's
coming through very softly.
>> Oh, is that any better?
>> There we go. Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. Um I think a little while ago, I'm
not sure what the heading of the
document was. Um, I think there were a
couple of um items or or maybe one
action items with two um items under it
that talked about making Island Street
and Cider Mill Road one-way streets. And
I'm sure we're going to revisit all this
again. I was just wondering right now um
if that was prompted by something or it
was just you know someone's opinion that
it might be you know if there's been
incidents at either you know either one
or both places.
>> Yeah. So yeah that's in the that's in
the complete streets chapter. I'll put
it up on the screen. Um
Cider Mill I I I can't speak to Island
Street on what the impetus of that was
but Cider Mill was proposed as part of
that's right here. um as part of the
multi- the the multimodal um path
between town hall campus and uh Route
Six and the and the Hop River Trail. Um
that Cider Mill Road being, you know,
extremely low traffic. I think there's
probably four or five houses on it. Um
>> and uh it being um you know it would it
like using Cider Mill as essentially a
one-way shared street for you know
vehicles, cars and bicycles um would uh
allow the town and and people to uh
finish that path from the town hall to
the Hop River Trail um safely and
relatively inexpensively without you
know having a major disruption on uh you
know traffic safety and that sort of
thing. So it it was sort of part of that
connectivity plan.
>> A bike path.
>> Yeah. That so instead of instead of
doing a separate um you know 12 foot or
10 foot wide paved pathway, you would
essentially use use the existing width
of Cider Mill Road, you know, to have a
one-way car lane and a and then a a a um
a bike pedestrian uh lane as well.
>> Okay. Thanks.
I couldn't speak to Island Street. I'm
not I I don't know the details of that.
>> Streets to one way. I uh you know, as
you say, there's maybe four cars a day
that drive on Ciderville Road. I would
think the chance of a bike, but
seeing one is a ride down there.
>> And we could consider changing the speed
limit to like 10 miles an hour on that
road. It's so short.
>> Stuff like that. you know,
>> there there are other there are other
ways of of you know, and and that we can
do stuff with pavement markings and and
other things uh to to you know, avoid
going fully one way, but you know, it's
it's re it's sort of identified as a a
key connecting
uh link in in the multimodal, you know,
travel chain if I'm not jargony.
>> Anything else? Lean
>> is what Any Did you have any other
comments? That was a good one.
>> No, thanks.
>> Okay.
Anybody else on the BOC?
Okay. Going to move on to new business,
which I think we have none.
Next up is uh correspondence.
Wayne, anything on that?
I have nothing on the field.
>> Okay,
we're going to move on to commission
discussion.
And Wayne sent out a little uh thing
from our bylaws talking about election
of officers,
which could happen as early as next
meeting. We have the election in early
November.
We changed the bylaws to say
at which time officers will be elected.
Let's say they're following the election
and seating of members. So, we have to
get the those members who are elected
sworn in
and then we can hold elections and it
sounds like all of the officers need to
be here for us to have that election.
So
that would be there. And I uh
I guess I can go on record as saying
that I would uh I am hoping that
somebody else is going to step up and
say, "Woo, I'd like to run the planning
and zoning commission for a while. So
think about that for the next month or
two because I've had my fund, had my
time, time for
>> somebody else maybe. run with that purge
for a little bit.
>> No, the just for my benefit um
after the election and the results are
out uh
then
any changes to the com uh to the
commission, those people have to be
sworn in and then they become members.
>> Yeah. at that point and they if that
happens before the November meeting,
>> we can hold election at the November
meeting.
>> If it doesn't, you know, there could be
a runoff and that takes a little while
sometimes. We've seen,
>> right, but they would have to be sworn
in
>> conflict. Was it four votes between uh
Oh, was it I can't remember now.
I know you were talking.
>> Yeah. Uh yeah,
>> town clerk would have would have to
swear them in and you know the minority
representation if those issues pop up
would have to be before that meeting.
>> We'll be we'll be addressing that at the
November meeting.
Any other comments for commission
discussion at this point?
And I guess the last thing I'll talk
about there, you know, and uh I was kind
of hoping Eric would show up here
tonight, but I certainly am going to
miss Eric's support doing all the
planning, the zoning stuff, but I think
he he supported all the uh the
commissions just like he did here, but
uh he's certainly been a mentor to me
and uh and was always very supportive of
what planning and zoning wanted to do.
And uh I'm going to miss that guy. So
>> me too.
>> Yeah.
Administrative report zoning agent the
way
>> uh not too much of I met with a
architect uh that's working on what is
now 280 Route 6 which is that lot
between Wales Road and Shotty Mill. Uh I
think I told you guys about that last
time that they were in yesterday. Uh
with a preliminary site plan for me to
look over
um and actually building a house.
>> We're building a residence there. Yes.
That that was a six lot San Martino
subdivision that was approved in a
business zone in 1994.
And that's the last lot of that six lot
subdivision.
So, u the questions arose about uh the
common drive that's there. Um there's
two lots that are served by a common
drive and this lot
connects to the apron of that common
drive
where it's on Route Six.
And the
there was questions about, you know, can
we can we move our driveway? And um
basically my answer to that was you'd
have to you'd have to get the planning
zoning commission to um
>> he wants to move it off the common
driveway and on to route six or
>> No, he wants to move it from the apron
that's there
up the driveway. So it's to the common
driveway at a perpendicular angle part
of the road which kind of makes sense
but but that's but that's not what was
approved in 1994. Although our
regulations
>> our regulations
>> so the my answer to to them was that
they can come to the commission and
request a change to that subdivision
then and they would have to get a new um
a new easement by them
because there would be three three
residences served by that common drive.
If if they do that, which the commission
has to wave the two in the subdivision
regulations,
>> it can wave it.
>> We can't wave it.
>> Uh, actually, there is a section of
subdivision that says you can in the
subdivision regulations.
>> Yeah, but it's not. Well, I'll I'll
look. I thought the the driveway
requirement was in our zoning rights. Uh
there's driveway requirements in the
zoning rigs. There's driveways in the
subdivision rigs.
>> Okay. Isn't it just easier just to bring
it out of the apron?
>> That's what [snorts] I've told these
guys that it would be very difficult to
accomplish what they want to accomplish
if they could even if it could happen.
Yeah.
>> And then there was another question
about common drives and this is sounds
like it's come going to come before the
commission maybe in November. Um spoke
with the engineer Mark is it Mark
Reynolds?
Yeah, Mark Reynolds
who's working on an open space
subdivision
in town and at an undisclosed location.
U but the question was about common
drives in an open space subdivision.
I told him to bring the bring bring his
ideas to the commission and for an in
informal.
>> So this would be an informal
presentation.
>> For an informal presentation.
>> Okay. Y
>> what's Wayne? What's our current policy
regarding shared drives?
>> Uh, currently, like I said, in it's a a
shared drive can service two residences.
>> Uhhuh.
Okay.
>> Except like I said, there's a there is a
section in the subdivision regulations
where that can be waved
for a subdivision, a proposed
subdivision.
>> So, you mean so it could be it could
serve more than two? You mean?
>> Yes. Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Section I have it right here
in the subdivision
uh subdivision regulation
7.7
number 10.
And the very first paragraph in
regulations subdivision regulation 7.7.
The very last line of the opening
statement says the commission can wave
any of any of those items in seven.
>> Right. There's a yeah there's a blanket
waiver provision that that subdivision
regulations are allowed to have. Um
>> so
okay. Now otherwise common drives u
are for two two residences.
There is words in the storm water
section about common driveways for three
or more have to have a storm water storm
water management plan.
>> I think three or more you're talking
about private road.
>> No the words common drive. A common
drive y
>> services. I have to look
>> more than two dwellings. That's what it
says.
>> No, the Well, the the the regulation at
the end there says common drives may be
allowed provided the driveway serves no
more than two dwellings.
>> Right. Right.
>> So that's those are words I'm familiar
with
>> and but that's but what you're so
>> No. Yeah. That right there. How Right.
But uh if you go back to the beginning
like you said that way.
>> Sure. Sure. Okay.
If you go to pageif page 50 of the
zoning regulations,
which is this
which is the storm water management
section, but that has to do with storm
water. So
number
>> uh
where are you?
>> Where am I? Uh hold slow down. You go
too fast. Sorry. Oh, there we go. Any
project involving new road to common
driveway serving three or more?
>> So,
>> well, yeah, that doesn't I I wouldn't
say that necessarily
explicitly permits a common driveway
serving three or more. It would just be
>> indeed storm water management
>> road
>> or if you have Yeah, if you have a road
>> which Yeah, I suppose. Yeah. So yeah, we
should Yeah, it's it's probably good to
be a little bit clearer.
>> And 4.4
C, that's where you get to the to
>> in in subdivision or in in zoning?
>> No, in the in the regulations there.
>> 4.4 C.
>> Yeah.
H.
No, it's not that.
>> 4 4.9.4.
>> Okay. Rear locks. 4.9.4.
>> Yeah.
>> Right here. Driveways.
>> And if you go down to see
>> uh Yeah. So construction of a may grant
special permit construction of common
driveway to a maximum of two adjacent
>> two rear.
>> So to that that so it's not clear
whether that would also include
the the front lot you know serving a
front lot that that those two rear lots
are behind. And in the case of this 280
Route 6, every lot has frontage.
>> Wow.
>> So
I I just throw it back at them. I let
their engineers and architects and stuff
come
>> and they must be reading the same thing.
come up with a something and then
if they put something in writing then we
all should just look at that
>> and we'll look at what they have to say
first.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, that's plenty. Anything else,
Wayne?
>> No, plenty.
[clears throat]
Well, is the inland wetland water course
agent uh
rep got nothing to report at this point
in time?
So, now we're back to you, John.
>> Um I don't think I have anything
further. I I just, you know, with with
Eric's pending departure, um we're going
to meet uh before, you know, again,
before he leaves, um to make sure that
all of any projects that need my
involvement, um are are just, you know,
that I that I know who to talk to, where
where the status of the contract is and
that sort of thing. We just need to
finalize those those elements. Um but
yeah, I I'm I'm nothing further for me.
So Wayne, was that an open space
subdivision?
>> Yeah, that's what they're proposing. An
open space subdivision basically
cluster.
>> That would be interesting.
>> Yeah, that was put in the last plan of
conservation group to
>> must be that 38 acres up on
>> but I don't know where I don't know that
you know up on what
>> where they were looking the guy wanted
to put in the AI data distribution.
>> That's 25. Yeah,
>> a surveyor has been up there.
>> Okay,
that would be my guess.
>> It's taped off and stuff, but
next item up on the agenda is public
speak. [clears throat] Katherine said
through a lot here tonight got anything
for us?
>> No, thank you. Um, I would like to um
have John's permission to get hold of
him sometime simply to discuss some of
the changes that in the zoning
regulation of the laws that were passed
by the last legislature that got vetoed
by the governor.
>> How to get rid of John get hold of John.
So,
>> sure. It's uh I don't know if if you um
Katherine if you've got a a pen.
>> Yes.
>> But uh if you have I don't know if you
have my email, but it's just just the
title planner pla ner at um Andoverct
andoverct.
>> Uh yeah, planner andoverct.org.
>> Okay.
Yeah, happy to talk to you
>> because if it doesn't come up at the
special session, I think it's going to
be coming up uh in February again. So,
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> Planning and zoning section of the bar
assoc bar association
>> um frequently has some information about
it and opinions on it, etc.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, definitely we work
closely with with Jay Klein and and
those those folks all the time.
>> All right. Thank you.
Okay, next up is the approval of the
minutes. I'll make a motion to approve
the minutes of our last regular meeting
on September 16th.
Thank you, Scott. Any uh any comments on
the minutes?
that I'll call for vote and
Scott.
>> I saw your lips move in.
>> I think we
>> Yeah, I just want to make sure you heard
me.
>> I got it. Okay, thank you. Patrick,
>> hi.
>> Leanne,
>> I
>> and I vote I as well. The minutes are
approved. 5 0.
Next regularly scheduled meeting,
November 18th, 2025 to be held as a
hybrid meeting.
Any last comments?
I'll make a motion to adjurnn.
>> Second.
>> Thank you, Patrick. All in favor say I.
>> I.
Any oppose? Any abstain? Motion passes
by 0. Thank you very much everybody.